# lab005-TODO-list

Create a "TODO" REST API service using Express and Body-Parser. We'll skip the database layer for now and just log the model logic to the console

Requirements
1. Create an Express project
2. Create the standard REST endpoints for a "TODO" application to :
    i.Get a list of todo items
    ii. Get a single todo item by ID
    iii. Create a new todo
    iv. Update an existing todo item (full replace)
    v.Partially update an existing todo item (patch)
    vi. Delete a todo item
3. Use the model, view, controller, service model to structure your project.
4. In your service, add a unique ID to the document when new items are created.
5. Support a "color" property for your todo items. The rest of the properties are unimportant but you can use the same structure as our previous "TODO" lab.
6. Add a middleware that will inspect the "color" property and automatically add a "hexColor" property to a todo item when it is being created. Since there are many hex color values, just support the following to keep things simple (you can hardcode this translation in the middleware) :
    i. red - #ff0000
    ii. green - #00ff00
    iii. blue - #0000ff
7. In your model, print the todo object to the console when it is provided by user input (PUT, POST, PATCH). Hard code a small array of three items in your model to simulate a database. Return this array for the "get all todos" logic and search it to return a single item for "get one todo by ID". Return a 404 if the requested ID does not exist.
8. When updating or deleting a todo item, if the provided ID does not exist in your hard coded array of items, return a 404.
9. When creating or updating a todo item, return the final document with an appropriate status code to the user (including the autogenerated ID and the hexColor property) and add it to the list of todo's assigned to your model instance.
10. This should have the effect of simulating a database. If you have three todo items in your list, then create a new one, on a subsequent GET call you should have four (including the newly created one). When you update a todo, a subsequent GET request should include the changes.

Continuing from lab #5, add everything to make it a "real" API with MongoDB integration, linting, and JSON schema based input validation.

1. Create a database class as a global singleton to maintain a MongoDB connection pool.
2. Replace the memory mocks in the Model with a reference to the new database class.
3. Create a JSON schema that matches your expected data structure for "TODO" items.
4. Validate user requests to ensure the request body adheres to your JSON schema.
5. Return a list of validation errors and an appropriate HTTP status code when the user request does not match the JSON schema.
6. Do not allow user requests to add unsupported fields/properties. Only allow properties specified in your JSON schema. If the request body contains an unknown property, return a validation error and proper HTTP status code.